# How do I get my GWT application indexed on search engines? #

GWT lets you build Ajax applications, and Ajax applications are hard to crawl and index for search engines out there.

The reason is that the actual content of your application is hidden behind interactions with your user interface that trigger JavaScript DOM manipulations which transform the DOM and have the browser render the new content. Unfortunately, current day search engines aren't sophisticated enough to be able to figure out how to navigate through an Ajax application to crawl and index that content. However, there exist a number of techniques which can help make your Ajax-enhanced application's content crawlable. One technique is to [design for accessibility](http://googlewebmastercentral.blogspot.com/2007/11/spiders-view-of-web-20.html), which is an especially useful technique if you're writing an application from scratch in handwritten JavaScript.

However, while the above technique will help your Ajax-enhanced application get crawled and indexed on a search engine, it doesn't directly apply to GWT applications since so much of the JavaScript that is your application is generated by the GWT compiler.

Luckily, while we wait for search engines to catch up to Web 2.0 and come up with a solution to the indexing problem, we have a non-intrusive workaround that should help get you indexed while waiting for the real solution to come to search engines; a technique that one of our very own GWT team member uses for his GWT application.

A note before going into the solution -- getting an Ajax application to be crawled by a search engine is tricky business. Consider this: what happens if a particular state of your Ajax application, say http://mycompany.com/myapp#droppedcontacts, causes your application to update or even delete entries from the system. What could happen if a given search engine not only crawled through that state, but indexed it? The next thing you know, your application users start performing web searches for dropped contacts on MyApp and click on a link corresponding to this deletion state, where upon clicking on the URL, your application responds by deleting entries. This is a bit of an exaggerated case, but it illustrates the point about how easy it is to leave an open state that, had a search engine crawled and indexed the content by actioning the JavaScript, could break your application or at least present consequences that would leave your users unamused.

Now that we know how tricky the problem is, it's fair to expect that the solution won't be pretty. Now, onto the solution.

First, we want search engines to crawl and index application states that are safe.