# Does the GWT RPC system support the use of `java.io.Serializable`? #

The GWT 1.4 RPC system does support the use of `java.io.Serializable`, however only under a certain condition.

Previous to 1.4, the GWT RPC mechanism used an "IsSerializable" marker interface for denoting classes that can be serialized. Many users expressed the wish to reuse code with GWT that they have already written that used the standard `java.io.Serializable` marker interface. Since both interfaces are empty marker interfaces, there is no technical reason why GWT's RPC mechanism could not use the standard `java.io.Serializable`. However, there are good reasons to choose not to do so:

  * The semantics of GWT's serialization are much less sophisticated than standard Java serialization, and so to use `java.io.Serializable` as the marker interface would imply that GWT's serialization system is capable of more than it actually is.
  * Conversely, GWT's serialization mechanism is simpler than standard Java's, and so to use `java.io.Serializable` would imply that users have more to worry about (such as serialization version IDs) than they actually do.
  * GWT implements only a subset of the full Java JRE classes, and specifically implements nothing in `java.io`. To use `java.io.Serializable` as the GWT RPC serialization marker interface dilutes the message that `java.io` is not usable within a GWT application.

While each of the points above still hold, the GWT Team felt that the community was generally aware of these issues but preferred the convenience of being able to use the standard `java.io.Serializable` interface rather than to have their classes implement the `isSerializable` marker interface, although both marker interfaces to denote serializable classes are supported in GWT 1.4. Considering this, the GWT Team made changes to the GWT RPC system to support the use of `java.io.Serializable` for data transfer objects (commonly referred to as DTOs) that would be transferred over the wire. However, there is one condition to enable support for `java.io.Serializable` in the new GWT RPC system.

RPC now generates a serialization policy file during GWT compilation. The serialization policy file contains a whitelist of allowed types which may be serialized. Its name is a strong hash name followed by .gwt.rpc. In order to enable support for `java.io.Serializable`, the types that your application will send over the wire must be included in the serialization policy whitelist. Also, the serialization policy file must be deployed to your web server as a public resource, accessible from a `RemoteServiceServlet` via `ServletContext.getResource()`. If it is not deployed properly, RPC will run in 1.3.3 compatibility mode and refuse to serialize types implementing `java.io.Serializable`.

Another important point to note is that none of the classes that implement `java.io.Serializable` in the full Java JRE implement `java.io.Serializable` in GWT's emulated JRE. What this means is that types that implement `java.io.Serializable` in the JRE like `Throwable`, or `StackTraceElement` won't be able to transfer across the wire through GWT RPC since the client won't be able to serialize/deserialize them. However, this isn't an issue for other types like `String`, `Number`, etc... that don't implement `java.io.Serializable` in the emulated JRE but have custom field serializers so that they can be properly serialized.

These differences between types that implement `java.io.Serializable` in the real and emulated JREs may be reconciled in a future version of GWT, but for the time this is an important point to keep in mind if your application uses GWT RPC.
