#summary Articles and tutorials

=Articles and Tutorials=

Below is a sample of articles and tutorials that have been published on the web about GWT:

 * [http://blogs.pathf.com/agileajax/2007/06/gwt_a_year_late.html GWT a Year Later] - 07 Jun 2007 - AgileAjax posted an interview with Dr. Adam Tacy and Robert Hanson, authors of [http://www.manning.com/hanson/ GWT in Action]. With the benefit of a full year's experience, they thoroughly answer some of the [http://ajaxian.com/archives/google-web-toolkit-the-correct-level-of-abstraction initial doubts about the GWT approach] expressed on Ajaxian soon after GWT's initial launch.

 * [http://devblog.glowday.com/2007/05/tech-review-google-web-toolkit.html Technical Review of GWT] - 08 May 2007 - This is a balanced technical assessment of the major aspects of GWT, written by a developer who has been using GWT for a couple of months at a startup.

 * Build an Ajax application using Google Web Toolkit, Apache Derby, and Eclipse - IBM DeveloperWorks hosts this very thorough tutorial written by Noel Rappin describing the end-to-end process of a building a full GWT application, explaining how to use remote procedure calls (RPC) to facilitate client/server communication.
  * [http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/os-ad-gwt1/ Part 1: The fancy front end] - 05 Dec 2006
  * [http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/library/os-ad-gwt2/ Part 2: The reliable back end] - 23 Jan 2007
  * [http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/library/os-ad-gwt3/ Part 3: Communication] - 13 Feb 2007
  * [http://www-128.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/library/os-ad-gwt4/ Part 4: Deployment] - 27 Feb 2007
 
 * [http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit/web/security-for-gwt-applications Security for GWT Applications] - 06 Apr 2007 - Dan Morrill's very popular AJAX security article provides a great overview of various exploits and describes how GWT developers can help protect their code against such attacks.

 * [http://timepedia.blogspot.com/2007/06/gwt-demystified.html GWT Demystified] - 02 Jun 2007 - This is an in-progress blog series talking about the nuts and bolts of GWT by Ray Cromwell, CTO of Timepedia. Timepedia recently released Chronoscope, a GWT charting and visualization platform. In his first post, Ray delves into some of the theory and practice of the GWT compiler, explaining many invisible-but-important details that don't typically get a lot of fanfare.

For additional resources related to GWT, you may be interested in browsing this set of [http://blogs.pathf.com/agileajax/2007/07/36-gwt-tutorial.html 36 GWT Tutorials].

If you believe that a resource should be added or removed, please [mailto:gwt-third-party@google.com let us know].
