#summary A comprehensive guide to GWT functionality
=Developer Guide=

The GWT Developer Guide contains a variety of topics that explain the various components of the toolkit and techniques for using them when building applications.

==Topic Guide==

[DevGuideFundamentals Fundamentals]
Core GWT concepts such as [DevGuideJavaToJavaScriptCompiler compiling Java source into JavaScript] and [DevGuideCrossBrowserSupport cross-browser support].

[DevGuideProjectStructure Project Structure]
Describes the files and structure of a GWT project.

[DevGuideUserInterface Building User Interfaces]
As shown in [DevGuideWidgetGallery the gallery], GWT includes a variety of [DevGuideWidgetsAndPanels widgets and panels] that serve as cross-browser building blocks for your application. GWT also includes unique and powerful optimization facilities such as [DevGuideImageBundles image bundles].

[DevGuideHostedMode Debugging in Hosted Mode]
An embedded web browser lets you run and debug applications directly in any Java development environment before being translated into !JavaScript.

[DevGuideRunningInWebMode Running in Web Mode]
The Hosted Mode shell allows you to run the GWT compiler to generate JavaScript and view your application in a web browser.

[DevGuideWebMode Deployment in Web Mode]
Compile your application into !JavaScript for easy deployment.

[DevGuideServerCalls Communicating with a server]
Make calls to backend servers using [DevGuideRemoteProcedureCalls GWT RPC] or [DevGuideHttpRequests direct HTTP]. 

[DevGuideJUnitIntegration Unit Testing]
Integration with JUnit lets you test your AJAX code almost as easily as any other Java code.

[DevGuideAccessibility Accessibility]
Making your GWT applications accessible for users with screen readers.

[DevGuideInternationalization Internationalization]
Easily support multiple locales with a single code base.

[DevGuideInterop Interoperability]
Integrate your GWT applications with handwritten or third-party !JavaScript using [DevGuideJavaScriptNativeInterface JavaScript Native Interface (JSNI)]

[DevGuideDeferredBinding Deferred Binding]
Deferred binding reduces generated code size and improves run time performance.
