#summary As shown in the gallery, GWT includes a variety of pre-built Java widgets and panels that serve as cross-browser building blocks for your application. GWT also includes unique and powerful optimization facilities such as image bundles.

=Building User Interfaces=

GWT user interface classes are similar to those in existing UI frameworks such as [http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/docs/api/javax/swing/package-summary.html  Swing] and [http://www.eclipse.org/swt/ SWT] except that the widgets are rendered using dynamically-created HTML rather than pixel-oriented graphics.  

In traditional !JavaScript programming, dynamic user interface creation is done by manipulating the browser's DOM.  While GWT provides [DevGuideAccessingDOM access to the browser's DOM directly] using the [http://google-web-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/user/client/DOM.html DOM class], it is far easier to use classes from the [http://google-web-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/user/client/ui/Widget.html Widget] hierarchy. The Widget classes make it easier to quickly build interfaces that will work correctly on all browsers.

==Specifics==

[DevGuideWidgetsAndPanels Widgets and Panels]
Widgets and panels are [DevGuideClientSide client-side] Java classes used to build user interfaces.

[DevGuideWidgetGallery Widgets Gallery]
A gallery of widgets and panels.

[DevGuideEventsAndListeners Events and Listeners]
Widgets publish events using the well-known listener pattern.

[DevGuideUnderstandingLayout Understanding Layout]
Understanding how widgets are laid out within panels.

[DevGuideStyleSheets Style Sheets]
Widgets are most easily styled using cascading style sheets (CSS).

[DevGuideImageBundles Image Bundles]
Optimize the performance of your application by reducing the number of HTTP requests for images.

[DevGuideCreatingCustomWidgets Creating Custom Widgets]
Create your own widgets completely in Java code.

[DevGuideAccessingDOM Accessing the Browser's DOM]
When necessary, GWT gives you the flexibility to manipulate the browser's DOM directly.

[DevGuideDeferredCommand Programming Delayed Logic]
Classes that allow you to schedule activity to occur in the future.

[DevGuideDateAndNumberFormat Date and Number Formatting]
Formatting Dates and Numbers including support for internationalization.

[DevGuideLinker Using the GWT Linker]
The GWT Linker provides two built-in linker modules, and can be extended by users.

