#summary Parse and create JSON encoded data using the JSON client types.

=Working with JSON=

Many AJAX application developers have adopted [http://www.json.org/ JSON] as the data format of choice for server communication.  It is a relatively simple format based on the object-literal notation of !JavaScript.  If you choose to use JSON-encoded data within your application, GWT contains classes you can use to parse and manipulate JSON objects.   

==JSON encoding==

The JSON format is based on the syntax and data types of the !JavaScript language.  It supports strings, numbers, booleans, and null values.  You can also combine multiple values into arrays and objects.  JSON objects are simply unordered sets of name/value pairs, where the name is always a string and the value is any other valid JSON type (even another object).  Here's an example of encoding product data in JSON: 

{{{
{
  "product": {
    "name": "Widget",
    "company": "ACME, Inc",
    "partNumber": "7402-129",
    "prices": [
      { "minQty": 1, "price": 12.49 },
      { "minQty": 10, "price": 9.99 },
      { "minQty": 50, "price": 7.99 }
    ]
  }
}
}}}

See [http://www.json.org/example.html json.org/example.html] for more JSON examples.

==Parsing JSON==

GWT's JSON types are contained in a separate module, so you'll need to add the necessary `<inherits>` tag to your [http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5/wiki/DevGuideModuleXml module XML file]:

{{{
<inherits name="com.google.gwt.json.JSON" />
}}}

Typically, you will receive JSON data as the response text of an [DevGuideHttpRequests HTTP request].  Thus, you'll first have to convert that `String` into a data structure you can navigate and manipulate.  GWT includes the [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONParser.html JSONParser] class to handle that transformation.  Its lone static method [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONParser.html#parse(java.lang.String) parse(String)] will accept the JSON text and parses is into a set of [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONValue.html JSONValue]-derived objects.

[http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONValue.html JSONValue] is the superclass of all JSON types.  Each of the basic JSON types is represented by a class in the [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/package-summary.html com.google.gwt.json.client] package.  JSONValue contains a series of methods you can use to determine which specific subtype the value represents, and if possible perform the conversion.  For example, the [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONValue.html#isBoolean() isBoolean()] method will return a [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONBoolean.html JSONBoolean] if the JSONValue is really a JSONBoolean, or `null` if it is not.

Composite JSON types contain specialized methods for accessing their members.  [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONObject.html JSONObject] has [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONObject.html#get(java.lang.String) get(String)] and [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONObject.html#put(java.lang.String,%20com.google.gwt.json.client.JSONValue) put(String, JSONValue)] methods for getting and setting the object's properties.  [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONArray.html JSONArray] has corresponding methods named [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONArray.html#get(int) get(int)] and [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/json/client/JSONArray.html#set(int,%20com.google.gwt.json.client.JSONValue) set(int, JSONValue)].

For a complete example of parsing JSON, see the [GettingStartedJSON JSON article] in the [GettingStarted Getting Started guide].

==Mashups with JSON and JSNI==

If you're loading JSON-encoded data from your own server, you'll typically use the [http://google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/1.5/com/google/gwt/http/client/RequestBuilder.html RequestBuilder] and related classes to [DevGuideHttpRequests make HTTP requests].  However, you can also retrieve JSON from remote servers in true mashup fashion using GWT's [http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5/wiki/DevGuideJavaScriptNativeInterface JavaScript Native Interface (JSNI)] functionality.  The techniques for cross-site JSON is explained more fully in [FAQ_JSONFeedsFromOtherDomain this FAQ article].  To see a working example, check out the [GettingStartedJSON JSON/HTTP] chapter in the [GettingStarted Getting Started guide].

